Welcome back.
Let's talk about our second sorting algorithm and it's called selection.
Sort now selection sort is again one of the simpler possible ways to sort the list and the algorithm
works by scanning a list of items for the smallest element and then swapping that element for the one
in the first position.
Let me show you with this animation here.
We started with the first item and then the second item.
The red here signifies that it's the smallest item that it's seen and the blue is scanning ahead to
find the smallest item.
So right now eight is the smallest item but we encounter five so five switches to the smallest item
we encountered too.
So two becomes a small item.
We keep going six is not smaller than two nine isn't three isn't we encounter one.
One becomes the smallest item.
We keep going.
We find zero.
So 0 becomes the smallest item and we've just finished the list.
So now we move 0 to the first index in our list.
So we swap it out and then we keep going back to the beginning finding the smallest item.
Through the list which is one and then placing that in the second index and we keep going like this
until we find the smallest item place it next in the list.
Next in the list next in the list until we have our list completely sorted as you can see selection
sort.
We're still going to see a time complexity of all of and square if we look at the time complexity chart
we see then selection sort is not very fast.
Similar to bubble sort.
We have those nested for loops but use is a space complexity of of one.
It doesn't really add any additional data besides the input.
Now using the animation that you just saw can you implement your own selections or I'm going to leave
this for you as an exercise using Why you know from the bubble sort and why you just saw selection sort
how you can use that information to sort the list using this algorithm and I'll show you the solution
in the next video.